[mysterious music]
[wind whooshing]
[hammer clanking]
[rubble clatters]
[eerie music]
Azaan,
hold the lantern up higher.
[eerie music]
There it is.
The sarcophagus.
I've finally gone one
better than Ivan Makepeace.
[Azaan] Who is this Makepeace?
Oh, he's a rival of mine.
He's good.
[eerie music]
Very good.
That sarcophagus contains
the mummified remains
of Khenmetptah.
A Second Dynasty princess.
Over 4,000 years old.
[eerie music]
Then let us hurry.
There's nothing to fear here.
No, wait, I want to translate
these hieroglyphs first.
[eerie music]
Now, that's 10.
10 hundred.
1,000. That's it now.
What's this figure here doing?
He's touching it.
It's so beautiful.
Don't rush, Azaan.
We are so close.
[eerie music]
These old tombs
are often built with
[Azaan gasps]
death traps.
[eerie music]
Ivan Makepeace.
Are you sure?
Oh, yes.
I'd recognize that
face anywhere.
I told you not to hurry, Azaan.
Now just a moment.
I think I've got this.
[eerie music]
That symbol is death.
Death by a thousand
terrors awaits
anyone who touches
the sarcophagus.
Azaan, wait.
[dramatic music]
It's too late.
[man grunting]
Mr. Rudolph.
Mr. Sykes.
I don't suppose you could put
that bag back on
my head, could you?
The view was a lot
better in there, you see.
Very funny, Everett.
I always admire a man who can
laugh in the face of danger.
Mr. Sykes, what's
all this about?
You know exactly
what this is about.
The 10 pounds you
borrowed off me last month
for what you termed as
a solid gold investment
from which I've yet
to see any return.
Oh, that.
Yeah. That.
So what was it all about?
You see, I had a tip
that someone needed to offload
some jewelry in a hurry.
Stolen, was it?
Nah, nothing like that.
This old girl,
she'd recently lost her husband.
And well, she wanted a few
extra pennies for the funeral.
Anyway, it turned out
pickings were a bit richer
than I thought.
10 pounds just wasn't enough.
So I...
Yeah?
Went down the horse track.
And?
[eerie music]
Lost the lot.
Oh, well.
Now, let's see.
That's 10 pounds.
The daily rate of 100%
compound interest over 30 days.
Let's just say you
owe me a lot of money.
Do you have a lot of
money on you at present?
Not on me at present.
No, I didn't think so.
Got something to
show you, Everett.
[fire crackling]
This is Alice. [dramatic music]
Now, she borrowed money
off me, just like you did.
Half a crown.
Only she did it to feed
her little children,
rather than waste it
down at the horse track.
And just like you,
she always had a excuse
for not paying her debt.
Well, I guess those children
are going hungry now.
You killed her
over half a crown?
We did more than that, Everett.
The lads here had their
way with her beforehand.
And then again, afterwards.
You see, this is a lesson
in what happens to
people who owe me money
and then fail to pay up.
But we're not at
that stage just yet.
Little pain will help
the message sink in.
Nobby, get the clamp.
No, you don't have to do that.
You don't need the clamp.
Don't, don't. No!
[metal creaking]
No! Check my pocket.
I'm about to come
into a fortune.
Pull the other one, Everett.
Give it another turn.
There's a telegram in my pocket.
[metal creaks]
Which pocket?
Inside pocket, the jacket.
Left side.
Ah!
[fire crackling]
Dr. Felix Randolph requests
your presence at eight o'clock
on Thursday the 12th
to discuss the matter
of your inheritance.
Yeah. I told you.
What's this all about?
It's my Uncle Felix Randolph.
You might have heard of him.
Isn't he some sort
of treasure hunter?
So they say.
This is all very
interesting, Everett.
Thought you might
say that, Mr. Sykes.
This telegram says eight o'clock
and you are still sat here.
Shouldn't you be
seeing your uncle?
Well, it may have escaped
your attention, Sykes,
but I'm currently somewhat
being forcibly detained.
All right.
Let him go, Charlie.
[metal creaks]
Much obliged.
Well, I'll let you
know how it goes, then.
Hold on.
[fire crackling]
You'll do more than
that, Mr. Randolph.
[eerie music] [fire crackling]
I wanna know exactly what
you stand to inherit.
And when you expect
to receive it.
Because whatever
it is, it's mine.
[dramatic music]
Everett.
He's coming here?
Well, he should be.
I sent him a telegram two days
ago requesting his presence
by eight o'clock.
But you can never be too
sure with Everett, can you?
Well, it's nearly eight now.
You were going to tell
me what happened to Azaan
in the pyramid.
Ever the curious one, Archie.
I'm pleased to see that some
of my spirit of adventure
has rubbed off on you.
[gentle music]
You certainly didn't
get it from your father.
And the less said about my
other brother, the better.
And his wife.
But look at me now.
I've outlived the lot of them.
[knuckles tapping]
[gentle music]
That'll be Everett.
It's all right.
Nancy will see to him.
[gentle music]
[knuckles tapping]
[Archie] You were
going to tell me
what happened in the pyramid.
Nothing happened in the pyramid.
It was hours later that
the curse came into effect.
You really believe in
ancient Egyptian curses?
I believe in what I saw.
The curse promised death
by a thousand terrors.
[gentle music]
And by next morning,
Azaan was dead.
And the look on his face...
Uncle Felix.
So good to see you.
I mean, it's been too long.
Well, you're always
so busy, Everett.
This is true,
uncle. This is true.
Lots of irons in the
fire, as they say.
Oh and you, good old-
- Archie.
Archie.
Good old cousin Archie.
You must be a doctor now.
Ah, not quite.
Still studying.
Uncle Felix is letting
me use his workshop
while I do my research projects.
Sounds fascinating.
Could you get these gentlemen
a drink please, Nancy?
And one for yourself, uncle?
No, no, no.
That's part of the
issue, I'm afraid.
[melancholy music]
As you know, gentlemen, I've
always lived an active life.
Be it carving ice
caves in Mongolia
or wading through
marshes and darkest Peru.
Nothing has ever held me back.
Not even the disapproval of
most of the Randolph family.
But these last few months,
I've been finding things
haven't been as easy
as they used to be.
I get breathless just
walking up the stairs
here in this house.
So last week, I
asked a medical man
to come and give
me the once over.
You could have asked me, uncle.
I know, Archie.
But a man likes to keep
some things to himself
until the time is right.
[melancholy music]
And he has put his
affairs in order.
The fact is, gentlemen,
that my old ticker
is on the way out.
[melancholy music]
He tells me that as long
as I keep to my bed,
avoid over exertion,
strong drink, rich foods,
then it should last
until Christmas.
But not beyond.
[melancholy music]
And this is where the matter
of your inheritance
comes into play.
I've spent my life
traveling the world,
collecting rare artifacts
and valuable antiquities.
My collection to date includes
all the major civilizations.
Solid gold coins
from ancient Rome,
beautiful vases from
Ming dynasty China,
and an original da Vinci print
that I found in a
junk shop in Venice.
And all of these things,
with one exception,
I have bequeathed to
the British Museum.
[melancholy music]
So, what, you're just
gonna give it all away?
Artifacts such as these
should be seen by everyone,
not to be hoarded
away by an old man
in search of profit.
I think it's an
excellent gesture.
Is that what all the
commotion was yesterday?
Yes. Yes.
It took six carriages
to get everything away.
But you said with one exception.
- Yes.
[melancholy music]
There is one item so dangerous
it must never see
the light of day.
The sarcophagus of Khenmetptah.
It's here, in the house?
Downstairs in the basement,
where it will stay.
I intend to have
it interred there,
bricked up so it can
never be seen again.
Sorry.
What is a sarcophagus?
[eerie music]
It's an ancient Egyptian
burial receptacle.
And what does it look like?
It's a life-size
solid gold humanoid
covered in precious jewels.
Can I see it?
I don't think that's
such a good idea, Everett.
It sounds so beautiful, uncle.
Indeed.
It is.
Well, if it's just
gonna get bricked up,
I probably won't get
another chance, will I?
Oh, come on, uncle, please.
Yes, of course.
Nancy will show you the way.
[eerie music]
Just one thing.
Whatever you do, do
not lay a finger on it.
[eerie music]
You hear that, did you?
He's giving it all away.
He's mad. He's mad.
Was that wise, uncle?
How much trouble
can he get up to?
Besides, I wanted to
talk to you alone.
I've seen the way that you
and Nancy look at each other.
Oh.
No need to be ashamed.
A young man must be allowed
to sow his wild oats.
Just don't get her into trouble,
whatever you do.
Well, it's a bit
more serious than that.
Oh, you haven't already
got her into trouble.
No, no.
I mean, my feelings for her.
[melancholy music]
[rain pattering]
Your mother wouldn't
have approved.
You're a Randolph, Archie,
carrying on with the maid.
Well, she's awfully intelligent.
She's been helping
me with my research.
Just because she's
a maid does not-
- I said your mother
wouldn't have approved,
not that I didn't.
And it won't affect my decision.
- What decision?
[melancholy music]
I haven't got a lot, Archie.
The treasures that I spent my
life pursuing are all gone.
And the family fortune,
such as it was,
gambled away by
Everett's father.
But I do have this house,
and for what it's worth,
it's yours, Archie.
[melancholy music]
[door rumbling]
Is this it?
Dr. Randolph told
me never to touch it.
[eerie music]
[wood creaking]
Well, I don't know what to say.
All I ask is that you
brick up the basement,
as I've said.
Well, of course.
Beyond that, you can
stay exactly as you are.
I wouldn't want your
research to be interrupted
by you having to up sticks
and move somewhere else
when I kick the bucket.
Actually, uncle, there's
something I wanted to tell you.
[eerie music]
[wood rattling]
[Everett] Look at that.
The problem is with your heart?
So I'm told.
It appears that I have been
overworking it all these years.
I suppose, in the end, one
always has to pay the piper.
There are things that
can be done, uncle.
I've read up on it.
Even in my own research.
Currently it's on rats,
but I have successfully
restarted the heart of an animal.
And there was a
case in Luxembourg-
- Stop, Archie.
I know you mean well, but
I've accepted my condition.
But your doctor said
there was a chance.
So long as I stay in
bed, avoid over exertion,
strong drink, rich food,
et cetera, et cetera.
Archie, does that sound
like any kind of life?
I have something
else for you here.
What's that for?
[eerie music]
Oh.
The pistol.
Force of habit, I'm afraid
When you sleep
anywhere in the Orient,
it's a good idea to
be close to a weapon.
No, this is what I
want you to have.
It's my journal of
my time in Egypt.
Perhaps you can make
something of it.
Solve the mystery of
the cursed sarcophagus.
[eerie music] [rain pattering]
I never could.
It's even more beautiful
than I ever imagined.
It's gold.
It's real gold.
Well, this must be
worth a fortune.
[eerie music]
And he wants to brick
it up down here?
I'll have to see about that.
[eerie music]
Well, uncle, it's been
an absolute pleasure,
but must get back
into town, you know?
Places to be, people
to see and all that.
Archie, could you
show Everett out please?
I'm a little tired, I think.
Yes, of course.
[rain pattering]
Well, it's an
impressive building,
I'll give you that, Archie.
Not sure about these
floor tiles though.
Oh, and this wall here
is gonna have to go.
I mean, these old buildings
are full of these little
rooms, aren't they?
Not really great for
dinner parties, Archie.
Actually, Everett,
Uncle Felix said he's
leaving the house to me.
[thunder rumbles]
He said what?
Well, I'm here for the
summer for my research project.
And he didn't want
to turf me out,
if the worst were to happen.
And what about that
thingumajig in the basement?
The sarcophagus?
Well, I suppose
that'll be mine too,
if it's to stay in the basement.
That's nice, isn't it?
I mean, he writes me to tell
me about this inheritance
and then sends me away packing
with nothing in my pocket.
Typical. Typical of this family.
Always treated me like
a second class relative.
Well, I'm sorry, Everett.
I don't quite know what to say.
That's all right, Archie.
You've always been a good lad.
Now tell me more about
this research stuff.
Well, it's rather
hard to explain
without going into detail.
I could show you, if you like.
[eerie music] [thunder rumbling]
Medical school is
closed for the summer,
so this is where I've been
conducting my research.
Not bad, Archie.
[rat squeaking]
What've you got in there?
Rats.
Ah.
[rat squeaking]
Very nice.
Yeah. This should do me
for the night, I think.
Sorry, what?
You don't mind, do you,
if I bunk down here with you?
It's just that
there's only one bed.
That's all right.
You'll be all right on
the floor, won't you?
It's just I thought you
needed to get back into town.
No rush.
Thought I might stick
around for a bit.
You know, keep an eye on things.
Watch out for you, Archie.
Me?
Yeah, well, [thunder rumbles]
family is family.
And what with you being the
sole heir and everything.
I mean, it'd be tragic if
anything happened to you.
[suspenseful music]
[rain pattering]
That sarcophi...
Sarcophagus.
Yeah.
Did Uncle Felix say they
actually buried people inside them?
Yes. Well, only
important people.
Kings and such like.
[suspenseful music]
[rain pattering]
They would mummify the
remains to preserve them,
stick them inside a sarcophagus,
and bury them.
That one, I believe,
belongs to a princess.
Princess?
Well, what's left of one.
It's not my area of expertise.
There's more
information in here.
And what's that?
Uncle Felix's journal.
According to the available
translated writing,
Princess Khenmetptah was
mummified using a unique process
to perfectly preserve
the body as if in life.
Unusually, the princess
was interred fully intact.
Whereas, in most cases of
Egyptian mummification,
a cut is made on the
left side of the abdomen
and the intestines, liver,
stomach, and lungs are removed
and a hooked instrument was used
to remove the brain
through the nose.
Bloody hell.
Leave it out, Archie.
[suspenseful music]
Apologies.
I forget people are
squeamish about these things.
Yeah, well you'd be
bloody squeamish too
if you'd seen the
stuff I'd seen today.
What's that?
Don't worry about it.
I'm gonna get some shut eye.
Probably have bloody
nightmares now.
[thunder rumbling] [eerie music]
[rain pattering] [eerie music]
[Everett snoring]
[rain pattering]
[ominous music]
[man groaning] [ominous music]
[Everett screaming]
Everett?
[woman murmuring] [eerie music]
No! No, no, please, no!
Please! Please!
[eerie music]
[creature growling]
Khenmetptah!
[eerie music]
[Everett screaming]
[creature growling]
[eerie music]
The curse has come
for me at last!
[creature growling]
[eerie music]
[men panting] [rain pattering]
- It wanted to take my heart.
It wanted to take my heart.
What did?
[woman screams]
[suspenseful music]
[thunder rumbles]
[eerie music]
He's dead.
Dear God, look at
his expression.
[eerie music]
It's almost as if...
He was scared to death.
Bloody hell.
What's happened?
- Did you touch it?
[suspenseful music]
What?
- The sarcophagus.
Did you touch it?
[suspenseful music]
I...
I knew it.
He specifically told
you not to touch it!
I only wanted to have a look.
It's cursed, Everett.
Sorry, what?
Hold the lamp.
Wait, what are you doing?
Why do you think he
told you not to touch it?
Probably thought
I was gonna nick it.
Were you?
[suspenseful music]
What's all this about a curse?
Anyone who touches
the sarcophagus
is doomed to a death
by a thousand terrors.
[suspenseful music]
Something scared the hell out
of you just now, didn't it?
Just a dream, that's all.
Was it?
You were screaming and
thrashing on that bed.
I've never seen
anything like it.
If Uncle Felix suffered
the same experience as you,
no wonder his heart gave out.
That's nonsense.
I mean, yeah, I touched
the sarcophagus.
Uncle Felix didn't.
So how comes he's
dead and I'm not?
You might have been
if I hadn't have woken you.
Come on, Archie.
I mean, you're supposed
to be a scientist, right?
Surely you don't
believe in curses.
[suspenseful music]
[birds chirping]
Archie, are you all right?
Yes.
A little tired.
Did you manage to sleep much?
No.
Me neither.
Where's...
Everett?
He was out at the crack of dawn.
Said he had things to do.
I brought you some tea.
Nancy.
[gentle music]
You don't have to
do that anymore.
You were employed by my
Uncle Felix, not by me.
You don't have to be a
maid for anyone anymore.
Well, that's all very
well and good, Archie,
but it also means
I'm out of a job now.
And you don't have one either.
So what will we do?
Well, don't worry.
As soon as I'm
qualified as a doctor,
we'll be able to open up a
practice far away from here
where I'll just be Dr. Randolph
and you'll just
be Mrs. Randolph.
[uplifting music]
No one will know
your background so...
Why are you looking
at me like that?
Mrs. Randolph?
Are you asking me
to marry you Archie?
- Oh, well I suppose I am.
[uplifting music]
Well, is that a yes then?
Of course it is.
You know, deep down
I always wondered
if your feelings
for me were real.
Of course they are.
Real enough, I mean.
Compared to what you
might have to sacrifice.
What are you talking about?
You know what I'm talking about.
A Randolph shouldn't
marry someone like me
and you know it.
Well, I am a Randolph
and I get to say whether
I should marry you or not.
And I say that I should.
[Everett coughs]
[Everett] Oh, tea.
Very nice.
You were out early this morning.
Yeah.
I wanted to get to
the newspaper office.
See, I've got a pal in there
that can get a story out quick.
Look at that.
Obituaries.
Dr. Felix Randolph.
Oh, I've registered the
death over at the town hall
and I've arranged the
undertakers to collect the body.
You certainly don't
waste any time, do you?
I'm just thinking
of you, Archie.
Probate is a slow process
and I don't suppose
this research brings
in much money, does it?
Well, one day it will.
One day I'll be able to prevent
what happened to Uncle Felix.
You're working on a cure
for death now, are you?
Not exactly.
But restarting the heart
after a major trauma.
It can be done, Everett.
It's entirely possible.
There was a case in Luxembourg
where a patient had been
pronounced dead for 30 minutes
before being
successfully revived.
And I'm replicating
this process on my rats.
Do you know there's
a lot of people in town
that make a lot of money
out of killing rats.
And there you are, trying to
bring the buggers back to life.
Well, all I'm trying to do now
is figure out this
curse business.
It's my understanding that
these ancient Egyptians
were rather advanced
with their pharmacological
and medical knowledge.
Fascinating, I'm sure.
[eerie music]
I've been meaning to ask you,
what exactly was it
that you experienced?
Nothing.
It was just a dream.
[eerie music]
Probably brought on by all
that talk of extracting organs.
Yes.
Organs.
You said it wanted your heart.
What did?
[eerie music]
Well, it was like nothing
I'd ever seen before.
She had bandages,
head to toe in bandages.
A woman?
She was, once.
The Princess Khenmetptah.
Nonsense.
And even if it was
some sort of curse,
then how comes it only
affected Uncle Felix
and not the rest of you?
I don't know.
What was the name of
that princess again?
Khenmetptah.
How do you spell that?
K-H-E-N-M-E-T-P-T-A-H.
Lovely. Thank you very much.
Why did you want to know that?
Just interested.
[silly bright music]
[bells clanging]
[hooves clattering]
[suspenseful music]
Knobby, get the clamp.
What's this?
It's my hand, Sykes.
You know, for the clamp.
We're a bit beyond
that stage, Mr. Randolph.
There's something
else you've got two of
that we're gonna be
putting in the clamp today.
Get his pants off, lads.
Wait, wait, wait a minute.
You were supposed
to come and see me
after your little meeting.
I was just on my way.
You were heading in
the wrong direction.
No, I was just-
- Get him on the table, lads.
I had to sort out
a few things, okay?
Take care of business.
Take care of what?
When are you getting
this inheritance?
Obituaries. The back page.
[suspenseful music]
[fire crackling]
Noted Explorer Felix Randolph.
He's dead?
Died last night.
Well, that was bloody quick.
Did you have something
to do with this?
He had a weak heart.
Yeah.
I might have helped things
move along a bit. Yeah.
Well, well.
I've got to say, I'm
impressed, Everett.
I never thought you had the
balls to do something like that.
Well, if it's all
the same to you, Sykes,
I'd very much like
to keep hold of them.
All right.
Let him go.
Much obliged.
So what can we expect to
receive from your late uncle?
Oh, it's beautiful, Sykes.
It really is.
I mean, it's gold, jewel
encrusted, 4,000 years old.
I mean, it's priceless.
Your share of it will certainly
clear my debt with you.
My share of it?
You do make me laugh, Everett.
I mean, whoever said
anything about shares?
You see, the plan is
I get the inheritance.
And you?
You get to avoid what happened
to Alice happening to you.
At least I'm not
a woman, Sykes, eh?
Well, these labs
aren't fussy, Everett.
They've done long stretches
inside. You know how it is.
[suspenseful music]
If I don't see
some hard evidence
of all this money you're gonna
make by the end of tomorrow,
you'll be a dead man.
All right?
[suspenseful music]
[mystical music]
[Felix Voiceover] Having
exhausted the writings
on the wall of the tomb,
I began to research further
into the life and death
of the princess.
Why had such a prominent person
died at such a young age?
What I discovered
shocked me to my core.
[birds chirping]
What are you reading?
This is Uncle Felix's journal.
I'm trying to figure
out this curse business.
According to the journal,
it's only those who've had
direct physical contact
with the sarcophagus
who've fallen victim to it.
Well, Everett certainly did.
Rubbed his hand all over it
like he was in love with it.
In love with the gold and
the jewels, I should imagine.
[eerie music]
Which hand did he use?
His right, I think.
The same one he used to
shake hands with Uncle Felix.
[eerie music]
I wonder...
[bright suspenseful music]
[bell rings]
[clocks ticking]
Everett Randolph.
Did you manage to pick up
that jewelry I told you about?
I'm sorry, Ivy.
Just couldn't get
the cash in time.
Can't win 'em all.
Maybe next time, eh?
I've actually got
something for you.
[clocks ticking]
Let's have a look at it then.
Well, it's not with me.
It's a bit big.
I need to cash it in quick.
It's in your line.
What is it? An antique?
Yeah, you could say that.
4,000 years old, to be exact.
[door rattles]
What are you going to do?
Well, we've got to open her up.
Have a closer look at it.
Are you sure?
Don't worry.
I'll be careful.
[wood creaking]
Oh, you wait till you see it.
I mean, it's beautiful.
It's gold.
It's as big as a person.
It's priceless.
And actually buried an
Egyptian princess inside it.
[clocks ticking]
Khenmetptah.
[eerie music]
You've heard of her, yeah?
Of course I have.
It's the one Felix
Randolph dug up, isn't it?
Well, you see Felix was my uncle
and he died last night,
which is how I managed
to get my hands on it.
[eerie music] [clocks ticking]
Poor old Felix Randolph.
Finally caught up
with him in the end.
What did?
The curse from that sarcophagus.
[clocks ticking] [eerie music]
I thought so.
There's a layer of oil
coating the sarcophagus.
I'll need to take a sample.
Be careful, Archie.
Not to worry.
I'm wearing gloves.
So you've heard about
this curse then, have you?
Everybody knows about it.
Everybody in the trade, anyway.
Randolph had to charter his
own ship to bring it to London.
No bugger would touch it.
It's all nonsense, Ivy.
And I heard someone on the ship
thought he'd have a butchers.
And it sent him mad.
He threw himself overboard.
Ivy, it's not that bad.
I touched it.
I'm not dead.
You what?
Get out.
And don't you dare bring
that sarcophagus in here.
I don't wanna be
anywhere near it.
Fine.
I'll take it over to
Irish Bob's place then.
He'll tell you the
same thing I did.
Anyone in the trade will.
That thing's not priceless.
It's worthless.
[eerie music] [clocks ticking]
You couldn't pay anyone
to take it off your hands.
Now go on.
Get out.
[eerie music] [clocks ticking]
[birds chirping]
[suspenseful music]
What are you doing?
I have a theory
that this curse is
more pharmacological
than it is supernatural.
Everett used his right hand
to touch the sarcophagus,
acquiring a thin coating of oil.
And then he shook
hands with Uncle Felix,
passing it on to him.
I'm doing the same
to one of my rats.
[suspenseful music]
[rats squeaking]
There are certain
chemicals known
to have a psychotropic effect
when they enter the bloodstream.
[Nancy] Which means?
It makes you see
things. Drives you insane.
Seems very possible to me
that these clever
Egyptians created
some form of powerful
psychotropic formula
and then mixed it with
something, like ground thorns.
Something sharp enough
to pierce the skin,
but small enough that
you'd never feel it.
And then they coated
the sarcophagus with it.
But-
- Wait, listen.
[rat squeaking]
He's becoming agitated.
I think it's working.
[rat squeaking]
It's horrible.
Poor thing.
Yes.
Right now he's
experiencing pure terror
and then his body will
release adrenaline,
too much for the
heart to cope with.
It's only a matter
of time before
[suspenseful music]
he's dead.
Is that what happened
to Dr. Randolph?
I'm afraid so.
Now we've just got to...
What is it?
[suspenseful music]
Oh God.
I am so stupid.
So bloody stupid.
What is it, Archie?
The oil.
If it can penetrate the skin,
it can penetrate leather.
[suspenseful music]
[bright suspenseful music]
[bells clanging]
I'm dead.
Spare any change, mister?
You what?
Spare any change?
Does it look like
I've got money to waste?
Looks like you got more than me.
Least you ain't
begging in the streets.
Yeah, well, give it time.
I might be by tomorrow.
Come on, mister, just a penny.
I'll work for it.
I'll do anything for a penny.
All right, I'll think about it.
I'm always here, mister.
Day or night.
Just ask around for Shelly.
[suspenseful music]
- That's it, Nancy.
As tight as you can.
If I start thrashing around,
I'm liable to injure myself.
What else can I do?
Just watch over me.
[suspenseful music]
If I go into a trance,
you'll have to wake me.
How?
Do whatever it takes.
It won't be easy, but it's
the only way to save my life.
You'll need to wake me before
the adrenaline in my system
starts to overstimulate
my heart and...
Nancy?
Oh God.
Okay.
Whatever you see,
Archie, it is not real.
[suspenseful music]
[creature growling]
Oh Lord!
[suspenseful music]
[creature growling]
No!
No, no, no, my heart! No!
No, not my heart.
[Archie panting]
Are you alright?
- I think so.
[uplifting music]
My heart is pounding.
You make me feel the same way.
[uplifting music]
You did it, Nancy.
You saved my life.
[uplifting music]
- I knew it.
[bright suspenseful music]
I knew there was something
going on between the two of you.
I didn't have you down
as the kinky sort though.
You oughta watch her, Archie.
She'll have you wearing
her dresses next.
I know the type.
Shut up and come
and help untie me.
I've just been through
the same thing you
and Uncle Felix have.
[Everett] You've
been cursed or what?
It's not a curse.
[melancholy music]
It's a psychotropic chemical.
It gets under your skin
and it makes you see things.
Terrible things.
And then your body starts
to produce adrenaline,
too much for the
heart to cope with.
And you die unless someone
can snap you out of it.
And how did you work that out?
Science.
Science and research.
It's what I do. And
Nancy assists me.
I bet she does.
[uplifting music]
[Archie] This is the stuff.
Oh, be careful, Archie.
I've never seen
anything quite like it.
This could be a very
valuable discovery.
[uplifting music]
Valuable?
To the scientific community.
A valuable source of knowledge.
And there was me thinking
that maybe we could
bottle it up and sell it.
[uplifting music]
Bloody hell, Archie,
there's gotta be
some way of getting
some sort of value
out of this thing.
[uplifting music]
Look, I'm gonna level
with you, Archie.
I need to find a way of
making some money fast.
Well, we'll have to
sell the house eventually.
No, no, no.
Not eventually, Archie.
Now. Okay?
See, I owe a lot of money.
And if I don't find a way of
making this money by tomorrow,
I'm dead. [melancholy music]
Look, I don't know what to say.
Making money has never
really been my strong suit.
Even Nancy and I are worried
about how we'll manage
with Uncle Felix gone.
- You're bloody useless.
The pair of you are useless.
I don't even know why
I'm talking to you.
[melancholy music]
What this?
Live on show tonight,
the Hottentot Venus.
I've heard about that.
It's terribly cruel.
Some poor African woman they've
put on show half undressed
for people to gawk at.
Tickets are thruppence a piece.
They've gotta be raking it in,
just to see this African woman
I've seen her actually.
You have?
Oh, it was with the Academy.
All of us went for
educational purposes.
[Nancy] It's no more
than a freak show.
She has very unusual
physical characteristics.
That's a polite
way of saying it.
I've got to get the dinner on.
[rain whooshing]
[suspenseful music]
What are you thinking?
If they're willing
to play thruppence
to see some woman from Africa,
what would they
be willing to pay
to see an actual ancient
Egyptian princess?
Everett, you can't put
a dead body on display.
Even if it is a
thousand-year-old dead princess.
I'm not talking
about a dead princess.
I'm talking about a live one.
I'm sorry? What?
Think about it, Archie.
A living, breathing historical
artifact from far-off Egypt.
I mean, forget thruppence.
We could charge a pound pop
and they'll still be
lining the streets outside.
It's possible to
restart a heart, yeah?
You said that someone
over in Finland did it.
Luxembourg.
And in that case, the patient
had been dead for 30 minutes,
not 4,000 years.
What difference does it make?
Yeah, dead is dead.
As long as all the
parts are in good nick.
- This is ridiculous.
It's unthinkable.
But it worked with
the rats, didn't it?
How did you do that?
Well, I gave them a
large shot of adrenaline.
But rats are much simpler
beings than humans.
There's the higher brain
function to consider.
Even if we could
get her body going,
who's to say what condition
the mind would be in.
I mean, you've gotta admit,
it's an intriguing idea.
And if it worked,
it would definitely make
your name as a doctor.
I mean, Archie, you'd
be world famous.
The man that conquered death!
And you and Nancy would
never need to worry
about money ever again.
[rain whooshing]
[suspenseful music]
And neither would
you, I suppose.
I'd only want my
fair share, Archie.
And how much is your fair share,
considering I'd be
doing most of the work?
So you are considering it?
Look, Everett,
it's not that simple.
The body ought to be
perfectly preserved,
but what if the mummification
processes failed?
Or the organs, what if
they're all putrified?
Let's get her out and
have a proper look then.
Right now?
There's no time like
the present, Archie.
And I did say that I was
in a bit of a hurry, so...
[eerie music] [rain whooshing]
All right, but we
have to do this quickly.
I don't want Nancy to
know about any of this.
She'd be appalled at the idea.
How do you know?
Because I'm
appalled at the idea.
But you are intrigued by
the possibility, aren't you?
Against my better judgment.
It must be that sense of
adventure Felix always spoke about.
[rain whooshing]
[door rumbling]
I dunno why I keep closing this.
I only end up opening
it back up again.
Do you want a hand with it?
Grab the chisel.
[bright suspenseful music]
[wood creaks]
And now for the fun part.
Let's crack it open.
[bright suspenseful music]
[chisel tapping]
[metal clanks]
[bright suspenseful music]
Come on then, let's
have a proper look at her.
Too dark to see anything
in that basement.
I wouldn't get your
hopes up, Everett.
[eerie music]
Giddy aunt.
You know, I'm starting to think
that people'd actually pay
just to see her like this.
Well, she won't stay
like this for long.
See, the sarcophagus
was sealed airtight.
Now that she's
out in the oxygen,
her body's going
to start to atrophy
unless I can get
her blood moving.
And then...
What?
It's no use, Everett.
This is never going to work.
In the case in Luxembourg,
the patient had only
been dead for 30 minutes.
But I thought we agreed that...
The purpose of blood
is to carry oxygen
to all of the internal organs.
If you say so.
Blood is oxygenated from the
lungs breathing in and out.
Well, after 4,000
years in a sarcophagus,
any blood that
remains in her body,
well, it's not going to
have any oxygen in it.
Before we start her heart,
we're going to have to
do a blood transfusion.
[eerie music] [rain whooshing]
What's that mean?
It means we're
going to need blood.
Fresh blood from a living,
breathing human volunteer.
Well, don't look at me.
Well, do you want
to do this or not?
Yeah, of course.
Then we need to
do it by tonight,
before the body starts to decay.
I've got an idea.
[suspenseful music]
[rain whooshing]
Have you got a
penny I can borrow?
- Whatever for?
[coin clinks]
Wait and see, Archie.
Wait and see.
Look, I need to nip out.
I'll be back later tonight.
You're going out?
But we need to open her up.
We need to check the
condition of her organs.
Oh Christ. You don't need
me to help you with that.
No, I suppose not.
But it is going
to take some time.
I have to put everything back
exactly where I found it.
Well, you better get on
with it then, hadn't you?
I'll
see you later.
[rain pattering]
[thunder rumbles]
[rain whooshing]
[Archie] I'm sorry-
- It doesn't matter.
No, I mean about Everett.
Everett's always
been a bit difficult.
[melancholy music]
But having seen the way the
family have treated him,
I can hardly blame him.
I can hardly believe the
two of you are related.
Well, we might not be actually.
Rumor at the time was that
Everett's father, my uncle,
was not actually his father,
if you know what I mean.
It was a big
scandal at the time.
Tarnished the family name.
[melancholy music]
So the entire family
shunned Everett.
I see.
Plus his father was
an inveterate gambler.
He lost fortunes at
the card tables so
Everett had to make his
own way in the world.
And is the family name
still important to you?
- What do you mean?
[melancholy music]
If people found
out about you and me,
would you be ashamed of me?
No. Of course not.
[melancholy music]
But you know how people are.
It still feels funny sitting
at this table with you,
instead of eating by
myself in the kitchen.
I do miss Dr. Randolph,
but it's so nice just to
be myself around the house
instead of keeping
everything secret.
[melancholy music]
What is it, Archie?
Is something wrong?
I have never kept
secrets, Nancy.
Not from you, I mean.
I know that, Archie.
So if I asked you to
trust me, would you?
- What are you getting at?
[melancholy music]
Me and Everett, we're
working on something.
Oh no. What has
he talked you into?
It's something that
could be incredible.
It could be fantastic.
It could solve all
of our problems.
Or...
Or what?
Or it could be a
horrible nightmare.
And for that reason,
after dinner, Nancy,
I want you to go to your room
and stay there until morning.
Do not come out, no
matter what you hear.
What on earth are
you talking about?
Please, Nancy.
Promise me.
But what if you
get into trouble?
Is it something to do
with that sarcophagus?
- No. No.
[suspenseful music]
We won't be going
near that again.
I still don't like
the sound of this.
[suspenseful music]
[rain pattering]
I know.
And I knew you wouldn't,
but I have to try this.
And if it does work,
we'd never have to
worry about money again.
All right, Archie.
I trust you.
But I don't trust your cousin.
Neither do I.
But I don't think I can
do this without him.
[dramatic music]
[rain whooshing]
[thunder rumbles]
Remember what I said.
Stay in your room tonight.
We'll know if we've
succeeded by the morning.
It isn't something
dangerous, is it?
I don't know.
I don't think so.
And you're sure Everett
isn't forcing you?
I'll admit, he can
be very persuasive.
If at any time I don't feel
like I'm doing the right thing,
I'll put a stop to it.
All right?
[bright suspenseful music]
Why did they do this to you?
[organs squelching]
[bright suspenseful music]
[mystical music]
- [Felix Voiceover]
So there it was,
the truth about Khenmetptah.
There was no other such
case in recorded history,
making my find
absolutely unique.
Unique, and yet so grim
I feared no museum would
ever dare exhibit it.
[eerie music] [rain whooshing]
[door creaks]
This is a nice house.
Is it yours?
No.
Not yet.
[eerie music] [rain whooshing]
What is it that you
want me to do then?
Look, I've already said.
It's hard to explain.
[eerie music] [rain pattering]
Archie, this is Shelly.
Our healthy volunteer.
Pleased to meet you, Archie.
Thank you for agreeing to come.
So how's it going?
Fine.
How were the innards?
Well, rather
extraordinary, actually.
So we're in business then.
Look, Everett,
I've been reading
Uncle Felix's journal.
There's some more information
here regarding our-
- It sounds beautiful.
Maybe you could tell
me about that later.
Sorry to interrupt
you two gentlemen,
but what is it exactly
that you wanted me to do?
You haven't told
her why she's here?
Well, I thought it would
be better coming from you.
God.
All right.
Shelly, is it?
Why don't you lay on the bed?
[bright suspenseful music]
I knew it.
With the two of
you at once, is it?
No, no, no, no, no.
You got me here
under false pretenses.
You did say that you would
do anything for a penny.
I didn't mean that.
I might be a beggar,
but I'm not a whore!
If I may, all we need
is some of your blood.
[bright suspenseful music]
What the bleeding hell is this?
Look, we can explain.
Help. Help! Police!
Murder!
Let me go!
Get off me! Let me go!
Calm down!
Get off me! Get off
of me, you murderers!
[blow thuds]
[rain whooshing]
Well, this is just great.
Hold on.
It's all right.
She's just out cold.
This is not right, Everett.
This is awful.
Come on.
Help me get her up on the bed.
I promised Nancy that if,
at any point, I felt
uncomfortable with this,
I would put a stop to it.
Oh yeah?
In any case, the girl
will never agree to it.
Well, she doesn't
have to now, does she?
You can just do your thing.
While she's unconscious?
That is entirely unethical.
Nevermind dangerous!
How would we know if we've
taken too much blood?
This whole thing is
becoming intolerable.
[suspenseful music]
Is it?
Yes, it is.
And I haven't even told
you the worst of it.
Has it never even
occurred to you
as to why the princess was
interred at such a young age?
How she died?
No, Archie, it
didn't occur to me.
And, what's more, I don't care.
But if you are thinking
of backing out on me,
I got news for you.
While I was out,
I popped in to see my pal
over at the newspaper.
He was delighted when I
gave him this little tip
about this young heir
from a well-to-do family
who's been caught having his
wicked way with the maid.
You know how much the
press love a scandal.
Especially when it
involves a Randolph.
They're going to print that?
Not if I put a stop to it. No.
What?
They call it a
dead-man's switch, Archie.
Every day I go into the office,
I tell 'em to put an
hold on the story.
But when that day comes that
I don't show up, well...
It goes to print.
[suspenseful music]
We're doing this, Archie,
whether you like it or not.
[suspenseful music]
[thunder rumbling]
[rain whooshing]
[eerie music]
There.
The transfusion has begun.
So how long is
this gonna take then?
Well, the average person
has about eight pints
of blood in their body.
Now, that's what carries
oxygen to all of the organs.
Naturally, we can't
take all eight pints.
Why's that?
She would die.
Right.
All we need is enough
to get the heart pumping
the blood around the body.
And then once the
organs start to work,
the princess's body will start
to generate its
own blood supply.
And how do we know when
we've got enough blood?
I have no idea.
To be honest, this
is all guesswork.
Guesswork?
I thought you was
meant to be a doctor.
This isn't exactly
what doctors do, Everett.
So what happens
after this blood trans-
- Well, there comes
the hard part.
We need adrenaline.
I've only ever
done that on rats.
Done what?
Extracted it.
Pure adrenaline.
4,000-year-old heart, it's
going need a rather large dose.
Now the body only creates
it under certain conditions.
When they're scared, right?
See, I was listening.
And I was never exactly
sure on how we were going to-
[suspenseful music]
[woman gasping]
Is she waking up?
No, she looks too weak.
[woman gasping]
Shelly, Shelly, wake up!
Shelly!
[woman groans]
[Everett] What are you doing?
She's losing too much blood.
I've got to turn it off.
What if it's not enough
blood to wake up the princess?
Everett, she's going to die.
Leave it a bit longer.
[Shelly gasping]
[suspenseful music]
I said leave it.
[Shelly gasping]
[ominous music]
She's dead.
This is over.
Nah, it's not over
until I say it is.
- A girl has died.
[dramatic music]
Well better her than me.
[blow thuds]
[men grunting]
[suspenseful music]
What's going on?
Nancy, I told you
not to come down.
How could I stay upstairs
with all the crashing
and the screaming and...
Get back.
Archie, what's going on?
It's okay, Nancy.
It's over now.
[suspenseful music]
[Nancy gasps]
It's not over, Archie.
Not by a long shot.
Now, we've got Egyptian
princess over there
full of fresh blood.
And you are gonna
restart her heart.
[suspenseful music]
Everett, I can't.
Not now that Shelly's dead.
I can't extract
adrenaline from a corpse.
I need a working adrenal gland.
I suppose we're gonna
need a new volunteer.
No, no, I won't do it.
I don't care if
you blackmail me.
Well, if you don't do it,
then your little maid here
is gonna get a little bullet
in the back of her little head.
[suspenseful music]
There's a chair.
Now tie her up nice and tight.
[suspenseful music]
I'm so sorry, Nancy.
Don't worry, Archie.
I'm not scared.
You say you're not scared, eh?
Well I just won't do, will it?
That won't get the old
adrenaline pumping.
But luckily I've got something
that will help us
along with that.
[suspenseful music]
- [Archie] No!
It's too dangerous.
But it works, doesn't it?
You said so yourself.
A little bit of this
on the skin will soon
get those glands
working overtime.
Use me instead.
Put it on me.
Use my adrenaline.
That's very
commendable, that, Archie.
But who's gonna extract it?
[suspenseful music]
[rain pattering]
Get outta the way.
Just a little bit, Nancy.
We don't want you
having a attack
before we're ready now, do we?
[Nancy gasps]
[suspenseful music]
[rain pattering]
Listen, Nancy, whatever you see,
just remember it isn't real.
Haven't you got work to do?
Jesus!
[suspenseful music]
[rain pattering]
What are you doing? What's that?
An anatomy book.
I've never done this
on a human before.
I need to get the location
of the adrenal
gland exactly right.
[suspenseful music]
[Nancy gasping]
God, it's starting!
Come over here and
help me, damn it!
Hold her still.
[dramatic music]
Do it.
[Archie shouts]
[syringe squelching]
[rain pattering]
It didn't work.
What?
It didn't work, Everett.
There was only ever
a small chance.
A small chance?
[rain pattering]
[Archie shouts]
[body thuds]
A small chance?
[suspenseful music]
This was life or
death for me, Archie.
And you knew that.
You Randolphs are all the same.
Always treated me like dirt
on the bottom of your shoe.
Denied me of my,
my, inheritance!
[Princess Khenmetptah gasps]
Now you've utterly ruined me!
What are you looking at?
[dramatic music]
[Everett gasps] [ominous music]
What's she doing?
I tried to tell you, Everett.
She's a killer, a murderer!
They didn't mummify
her because she died.
She was buried alive!
[creature growls]
[dramatic music]
No!
[footstep thudding]
[ominous music]
[chair rattling] [ominous music]
[gun roars]
[creature groans]
[body thuds]
[suspenseful music]
[Felix Voiceover] There
is one item so dangerous
it must never see
the light of day.
The sarcophagus of Khenmetptah.
[melancholy music]
[hammer thudding]
[birds chirping]
[melancholy music]
It's a shame to have to
say goodbye to the old place.
We've no choice, Archie.
Not since they printed
that news story.
I love you, Nancy, and
I don't care who knows.
That's easy for you to say,
I'd rather not have people
pointing and whispering
every time I go into
town to get groceries.
We would've had to have
moved sooner or later.
I can't keep a house like
this, not on a doctor's salary.
What did you do
with it in the end?
With what?
You know what.
That thing.
Exactly as Uncle
Felix requested,
I've moved it back
down to the basement.
And there's a group of
builders coming this afternoon
to seal it with brick.
[melancholy music]
I don't think I'll
ever fully get over it.
What I saw that night.
You will, Nancy.
When we're far away from here.
I hear the houses in
Coventry are cheap
and there's an urgent
shortage of doctors.
Best of all, they've never
even heard of a Randolph.
[melancholy music]
What's that?
Front door key for the builders.
Who are they?
Some company in town.
Sykes or something.
[melancholy music]
[dramatic music]
[door rumbling]
[eerie music]
Well, well.
Looks like poor Everett
was being honest after all.
Christ, it's even
bigger than I imagined.
Nobby, pass us a hammer.
[eerie music]
Here we go, lads.
[wood creaking]
[voices murmuring]
It's coming loose. [eerie music]
Here we go.
[dramatic music]
[Sykes screaming]
[voices murmuring]
[dramatic music]
[gentle music]
[woman singing in
foreign language]
[gentle music]
[woman singing in
foreign language]